---
title: "I want to add support for pdf-tools on My Fav OS. How do I do that?"
author: ["Vedang Manerikar"]
draft: false
---

I'm working on automating `pdf-tools` installation as much as possible, in order to improve the installation experience. If you want to add support for a new / currently unsupported Operating System, please modify the `server/autobuild` script. Say you want to support a new Operating System called MyFavOS. You need to do the following work:

1.  Add a call to `os_myfavos` under `handle-options` at the end of the existing call chain. Here we try and pick up the correct Operating System and install the relevant dependencies.
2.  Add handling for the `--os` argument in `os_argument` for `myfavos`, so that the appropriate function can be called to install pre-requisites. `--os` is the argument that we pass to the script from the command-line to indicate which OS we are on.
3.  Create a `os_myfavos` function. This function checks if we are running on MyFavOS. If we are running on MyFavOS, it sets up `PKGCMD`, `PKGARGS` and `PACKAGES` variables so that the appropriate package manager can install the dependencies as part of the rest of the `autobuild` script.

The idea here is to make the `server/autobuild` file the single place from which installation can happen on any Operating System. This makes building `pdf-tools` dead simple via the `Makefile`.

This seems like a lot of work, but it is not. If you need a reference, search for `os_gentoo` or `os_debian` in the `server/autobuild` file and see how these are setup and used. The functions are used to install dependencies on Gentoo and Debian respectively, and are simple to copy / change.

When you make your changes, [[1CBE7325|please be sure to test them]]!
