---
title: "Installing the epdfinfo server from source on Windows (+ Gotchas)"
author: ["Vedang Manerikar"]
draft: false
---

If using the GNU binaries for Windows, support for PNG and `zlib` must first be installed by copying the appropriate dlls into emacs' `bin/` directory. Most third-party binaries come with this already done.

1.  [install MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/) and update the package database and core packages using the instructions provided.
2.  Open `mingw64` shell (**Note:** You must use `mingw64.exe` and not `msys2.exe`)
3.  Compile the `epdfinfo` server using Installation steps described in [[e305cd0a|Installing the `epdfinfo` server]]
4.  This should produce a file `server/epdfinfo.exe`. Copy this file into the `pdf-tools/` installation directory in your Emacs.
5.  Make sure Emacs can find `epdfinfo.exe`. Either add the MINGW install location (e.g. `C:/msys2/mingw64/bin`) to the system path with `setx PATH "C:\msys2\mingw64\bin;%PATH%"` or set Emacs's path with `(setenv "PATH" (concat "C:\\msys64\\mingw64\\bin;" (getenv "PATH")))`. Note that libraries from other GNU utilities, such as Git for Windows, may interfere with those needed by `pdf-tools`. `pdf-info-check-epdinfo` will succeed, but errors occur when trying to view a PDF file. This can be fixed by ensuring that the MSYS libraries are always preferred.
6.  `pdf-tools` will successfully compile using Cygwin, but it will not be able to open PDFs properly due to the way binaries compiled with Cygwin handle file paths. Please use MSYS2.
