---
title: "Installing the epdfinfo server"
author: ["Vedang Manerikar"]
draft: false
---

If you install `pdf-tools` via NonGNU ELPA or MELPA, **you don't need to worry about this separate server installation at all**.

Note: You'll need GNU Emacs &ge; 26.3 and some form of a GNU/Linux OS. Other operating systems are not officially supported, but `pdf-tools` is known to work on many of them.

The `epdfinfo` install script takes care of installing all the necessary pre-requisites on supported operating systems (see list below). See the section on [[A34704B9|I want to add support for `pdf-tools` on `My Fav OS`. How do I do that?]] to learn how to add your favorite Operating System to this list.

Similarly, package-managers are not officially supported, but `pdf-tools` is known to be available on some of them. See the section on [[fb5cef15|Installing the `epdfinfo` server from package managers]] to avoid manual installation of server / server prerequisites.

Installation Instructions for `epdfinfo`:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/vedang/pdf-tools
$ cd /path/to/pdf-tools
$ make -s # If you don't have make installed, run ./server/autobuild and it will install make
```

This should give you no error and should compile the `epdfinfo` server. If you face a problem, please report on the issue tracker!

The following Operating Systems / package managers are supported. **Note**: The package manager used to install pre-requisites should be installed on your OS for the script to work:

-   Debian-based systems (`debian`, `ubuntu`): `apt-get`
-   Fedora: `dnf`
-   macOS: `brew`
-   Windows (MSYS2/ MingW): `pacman`
-   NixOS: `nix-shell`
-   openSUSE (Tumbleweed and Leap): `zypper`
-   Void Linux: `xbps-install`
-   Apline Linux: `apk`
-   FreeBSD: `pkg`
-   OpenBSD: `pkg_add`
-   NetBSD: `pkgin`
-   Arch Linux: `pacman`
-   Gentoo: `emerge`
-   CentOS: `yum`
